 
terraform
21st may
assignment1: run terraform code and try to store your backend configuration on s3 bucket
assignment2: create rds server and print its properties in the output
assignment3: check the usage of data block and try to implement in your code
assignment4: check the usage of output file and block

terraform22nd may
assignment1: create a terraform code for below resources
modules
1. ecr(elastic container registry)- docker 
2. eks(elastic kubernetes services)-- kubernetes
3. ec2 instance (2) (ubuntu) ---- jenkins and as well as for ansible
4. vpc
5. security group
6. iam role


assignment2 (optional)
create a s3 bucket manually 
then import the s3 bucket on the terraform state file after importing to confirm add the tags in the s3 bucket using terraform


assignment 3 (githubactions)
create a github actions yaml for below task

task: create a terraform pipeline, once you trigger the pipeline your infrastructure should be created

things to taks care:
authentication between aws and git hub actions will be required
authentication keys need to be stored as a secret and use it in pipeline

run the pipeline and check if infrastructure is created in aws

assignment4
create a github workflow to deploy terraform code but with below conditions
1. take input from user for which environment they want to create resources
if user selects dev then resources in aws should have naming convention as dev
if user gives qa then resources in aws should have naming convention as qa


2. take input from user for actions the pipeline want to perform

scenerios 
if user selects plan then only plan stage should run
if users selects apply then plan and apply both should run
if user selects destroy then plan and destroy should run


note= make sure your secrets and variables are not hard coded in code or pipeline



3rd june
jenkins assignments

create another ec2 instance and try to set that machine as jenkins node
to verify run the pipeline using that node


4th june
create a terraform pipeline in Jenkins
once you make any changes on the GitHub your pipeline should trigger

note:

tasks:

git checkout
aws authentication
terraform installation
terraform init
terraform plan 
terraform apply


my pipeline should stop/pause between the plan and apply stage and ask for my manual approval


5th june
create a ansible playbook and add below task

install apache on the target machine

create a html file on the main machine then using the ansible playbook copy the html content on  the target machine

then hit ip address of the target machine from browser and see if you get the html page 


assignment 11th june

docker

write a sample java code or any language and create a docker file to deploy the java application inside the image

once your image is created try to run the image and test it uisng local host



Assignment 12th june

assignment 1: 
try to build the image with single stage docker file
and try to build the image with multistage docker file

once your both images are created see the sizes of the images

assignment2:

create a container with bind mounts, in which use your system d:drive

after running the container go inside the container and create some file inside the directory for which you have attached the volume.

once your volume is attahced and files are create now go back to your d drive and check the file which you have created inside the container should in the d drive

similarly create some file in the D drive and check in the container the file should be visible



assignment 3:

create ECR in aws account

try to create some sample images and push under the ECR


16th june

assignment1:

create a pipeline in github actions or jenkins with below steps:

1. your code and docker file should in same repo
2. build your docker images 
3. push the docker images on docker hub

these above actions should be repeative as soon as you make any changes on the repo


Question 1

Create a custom Docker bridge network called student-net. Launch two Ubuntu containers attached to this network and verify that they can communicate with each other using both container names and IP addresses.

Question 2

Create a custom network named web-net. Deploy an Nginx container named frontend and an Apache container named backend on this network. Demonstrate communication between the two containers and identify the network subnet and gateway.



17th may

kubernetes 

assignment1  

try kubernetes commands

https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/quick-reference/